Hello, and welcome
to the challenging parts of this course.
Part five, on Boltzmann machines.
And part six on autoencoders.
Because in the following two parts
we are gonna make a recommended system.
In fact, we're gonna make two recommended systems.
One recommended system that will predict
if a user is going to like yes or no,
a movie.
And another recommended system that is going to predict
the rating of a movie by a user.
So the first one predicts a binary outcome,
one or zero, that is yes or no.
And a second one predicts a rating
from one to five.
And this way you have the two recommended systems
that are mostly used in the industry.
Nowadays many companies build some recommended systems,
and most of the times these recommended systems
either predicts if the user,
the customer, is going to like, yes or no, the product.
Or some other recommended systems can predict
a rating or a review of some certain product.
So there we go.
We are about to create these two recommended systems.
And so we're gonna make the recommended system
that predicts a binary outcome yes or no
with our Boltzmann machines.
The neural network that we will implement
in this part five.
And then we'll implement the other recommended system
that predicts the rating from one to five
in the next part.
The last part of this course, part six, on autoencoders.
However for both these recommended systems
for both these parts,
we're gonna start with the same data set.
This is the most real world data set
that you can find online.
It's of course, the movie lens data set.
And speaking of this data set,
the first thing that we're gonna do right now,
in this tutorial,
is to go online to have a look at this data set.
So, this data set is available on this website
grouplens.org/datasets/movielens.
So this data set was created by GroupLens research.
And as we can see on this page
you have several data sets
with different amounts of ratings.
So for example this one contains
one hundred thousand ratings.
Then this one contains 24 million ratings.
So that's the largest one I think.
And then you have some older data sets,
and that's the one we're going to use,
with another one hundred thousand ratings.
From one thousand users
and one thousand, seven hundred movies.
And again, an old data set with 1 million ratings.
So I strongly recommend to have a look at these data sets,
download them, and of course I recommend
to practice on these data sets,
and test your different neural networks
besides the ones that we're going to make,
to see if you manage to get some better performance results.
So to download these data sets,
well that's very simple,
you just need to click on the links here,
and so the one that we're going to work with
is this ML100K, but I'm going to download this one too,
because this one contains the informations of the users
and the movies, so it contains additional informations,
which maybe can be useful to make the recommended systems
even more robust.
So there we go, that's the only real-world data set
with that many ratings you can find online,
and so each time you want to test your neural networks
for recommended systems,
I highly recommend to use these data sets,
as you can see they are used for not only education
and development, but also for new research,
and in that case, you know, the purpose of this data set
serves as a benchmark, so that you can compare
the different performances of your models.
Okay, so good?
Now let's move back to Python.
All right, and now the important thing to understand
is that even if we're going to make two different
recommended systems, well, we have
a common data preprocessing phase,
that's what we're going to do first.
And so this data preprocessing phase takes five tutorials,
and these first five tutorials are going to be the same
for our Boltzmann machine and our autoencoders.
And so these are going to be the next five tutorials
after this one.
So in these next five tutorials we're going to
import the data set,
prepare the training set and the test set.
We're going to get the number of users
and the number of movies, because we're going to need them.
And then we're going to convert our data into an array
where we have our users in lines, and movies in columns.
And finally, in the last step of this
common data preprocessing phase, we will convert
the data into torch.Tensors.
And then, after these five tutorials
we will start the steps that are specific
to Boltzmann machines.
That is, you know, we're going to
start dealing with binary ratings,
then create an architecture of a neural network,
that will be a Restricted Boltzmann Machine
that, I remind, is a probabilistic graphical model,
so right now, you're really taking it the next level,
this part is probably going to be the most advanced part
in terms of techniques of this course.
And so, hold tight, everything is going to be fine.
All right, so before we start this
common data preprocessing phase, let's set the right
folder as working directory.
So I'm going to File Explorer,
to my Deep Learning A-Z folder,
then Volume 2 - Unsupervised Deep Learning,
and Part 5 - Boltzmann Machines.
All right, before you were with Kirill
for the intuition lectures, and now you're with me
to implement our Boltzmann machine.
And there we go.
So that's the folder we want to set as working directory,
so let's do it right now, set console working directory,
here we go, we are now ready to start,
but first, let's explain what is inside this folder.
So first of all, you have this PDF file, that is,
a file available online.
And that contains all the theory behind
the neural network that we are about to make.
So I strongly encourage to have a look at this PDF file,
if you can read it, that's really, really good.
It contains all the theory, explains on the intuitive level,
but also it goes into the math pretty much in detailed.
We're going to have a look at this PDF in a second,
and then of course, we have our two data sets,
the 1 million ratings data set,
and the 100K ratings data set.
So remember, we're going to train our RBM on this one,
the one hundred thousand ratings,
but of course you can practice on this data set as well,
if you want to evaluate more the performance.
All right, and then of course we have our RBM python file
which is, of course, this one.
So now what we're going to do
is have a quick look at this paper
on Restricted Boltzmann Machines.
Here it is.
This paper is called
An Introduction to Restricted Boltzmann Machines,
and as you can see, it contains first an introduction,
then all you need to know about graphical models,
because a Restricted Boltzmann Machine
is a probabilistic graphical model,
so you have here the theory of graphical models,
with Undirected Graphs and Markov Random Fields.
Then, what do you have?
You have a section on Unsupervised Learning,
well that's great, because now we're in Volume 2
Unsupervised Deep Learning, so I strongly recommend
to read that as well.
And so as I told you, you have the mathematics,
the mathematical details on
the computations of the likelihood,
The KL-divergence, and some optimization theory,
which is of course very useful for Boltzmann machines.
And then you have some theory about MCMC techniques,
Markov chain Monte Carlo techniques,
so that's very important,
because we're going to use Gibbs sampling
to estimate the gradient of the likelihood,
and Gibbs sampling is based on MCMC.
We'll see that with the random walk.
Then you have the definition of a Markov chain,
so that's, if you want to go deeper in mathematics,
in details, and then you have of course
Gibbs sampling that's very important.
That's at the heart of Boltzmann machines,
and of course we will remind the intuition behind
Gibbs sampling, when we implement our Boltzmann machines.
So here, there you go, you have
some more mathematical details, you have everything,
and finally, you have, of course,
our Restricted Boltzmann Machines.
So after all the theory you have now,
the formula for the energy
that we're going to try to minimize, because we're trying to
minimize the free energy, and that is
by maximizing the log likelihood.
So here you have the architecture
of the Restricted Boltzmann Machines,
with the visible nodes, that's our input,
which are going to be the ratings of the movies
by the users, and the users are going to be
the different observations going into the network,
one by one.
And here you have the hidden nodes, and so all this
makes the architecture of the RBM,
and that's exactly what we're going to make, in Python,
by building a class.
And mostly this class will contain
the Contrastive Divergence technique,
that will be used to maximize the likelihood.
And speaking of the Contrastive Divergence technique,
I think it comes right after that,
well, first you have the Gradient of the Log Likelihood,
that you know we are trying to approximate.
And we approximate it with, there we go,
The Contrastive Divergence technique.
So in this class, that we're going to call RBM,
we will implement the Contrastive Divergence technique.
And so that leads us to the algorithm we will implement
in the following lectures, which is this algorithm,
Algorithm 1, k-step contrastive divergence.
We will implement this exact same algorithm,
so if you want you can already try to implement it yourself,
just by following the logic here.
And so this is this algorithm,
that is at the heart of our RBM.
So this is very important,
that you have a look at this first.
But don't worry, we will explain everything step by step,
and each time we will take a step back to explain
what we do, so that we never get lost.
All right, so let's do this, but first
let's take care of this common data preprocessing phase,
and that's what we'll do in the next tutorial.
Until then, enjoy deep learning!